ASG: it is a cloud computing feature that allows you to automatically adjust the no. of computing resourses, such as virtual m/c or containers based on the current workload or demand.
The goal of ASG is to ensure that your applications run efficiently, maintain performance and minimize the cost by scaling up or down as needed.
creating grp of ec2 instances that can scale up or scale down depending on conditions you set. 
ASG helps you save cost by cutting down the no. of ec2 instances when not needed and scalling out to add more instances only when it is required.


Vertical scaling (scaling up): increases the capacity of a single machine by adding more resources like CPU, RAM, or storage, 
Horizontal scaling (scaling out): adds more machines to distribute the workload across multiple systems. 


VERTICAL SCALLING:
SCALE UP:INCREASING RESOURCES LIKE CPU, RAM, VOLUME/STORAGE
SCALE DOWN: DECREASING THE RESOURCES.

HORIZONTAL SCALLING
SCALE OUT: INCREASING INSTANCES/ NEWLY ADD
SCALE IN: DECREASE INSTANCES

**how to asg work
resource monitoring
scaling policies
vertical scaling
horizontal scaling


Scaling Policies:
Generally scaling policy is of two types such as:
1. Manual
2. Dynamic
Again dynamic policy is divided into three categories as follows:
A. Target Tracking
B. Simple Scaling Policy
C. Step Scaling Policy

 Define how much you want to scale based on defined conditions.
 ASG uses alarms and policies to determine scaling.
 For Simple or Step scaling a scaling adjustment can’t change the capacity of the group 
above the maximum group or below the minimum group.

Predictive/Scheduled/Cycle Scaling: it looks at historic pattern and forecast them into the 
future to schedule change in the number of EC2 instances. It uses machine learning model 
to forecast daily and weekly pattern.

Target Tracking Policies: increase or decrease the current capacity of the group based on 
a target value for specific metric. This is similar to the way that your thermostatic maintain 
the temperature of your home.

Step Scaling: increase or decrease the current capacity of the group based on a set of 
scaling adjustment known as step adjustment that vary based on the size of the alarm 
breach. It does not support/ wait for cool down times. It supports warm-up timer: time taken 
by newly launched instance to be ready and contribute to the watched metric.

Simple Scaling: single adjustment (up or down) in response to an alarm (cool down timer300sec by default)

Schedule Scaling: used for predictable load change. You need to configure a schedule 
action for a scale out at a specific date/time and to a required capacity. A scheduled action 
must have a unique data/time. You cannot configure two sch
